---
layout: interview
name: Alistair Dalladay
image: afd.jpg
adn: afd
intro: "I&rsquo;m Alistair, a 27 year old from Kent. I have a love for programming, Doctor Who and photography. I tend to rant a lot, mostly on [my personal website](http://dalladay.co). I&rsquo;ve also recently become a writer and co-administrator for [Eye of Harmony](http://eyeofharmony.net), a collaborative blog for all things Doctor Who."
---

## Diagnosis

I have Asperger&rsquo;s Syndrome (one of the Autistic Spectrum Disorders), schizophrenia, depression, episodic paroxysmal anxiety, and Irlen&rsquo;s Syndrome. Basically put, I&rsquo;m socially inept, obsessive/compulsive, very confused, often very sad, easily frightened, and cannot read on black or white backgrounds!

## Medication

I&rsquo;m prescribed Seroquel/Quietiapine, which I no longer take. When I did, it made me ludicrously drowsy to the point I often fell asleep during the day. It also left me feeling very listless. I used to be on antidepressants several years back (Escitalopram and Fluoxetine).

## Challenges

I tend to find myself on a quest for perfection for everything I do. This results in a lot of procrastination. I have to force myself to set very specific deadlines for every detail&mdash;I have to micro-manage myself!

> &ldquo;It&rsquo;s like having two brains in one body&mdash;I&rsquo;m aware of both brains, but I can only control one.&rdquo;

Now that I&rsquo;m not taking my medication, I also find it hard to concentrate&hellip; The easiest way to explain my thought processes is it&rsquo;s like having two brains in one body&mdash;I&rsquo;m aware of both brains, but I can only control one. My mind races with more ideas than I can cope with, some of them I can&rsquo;t stop. I also find myself struggling at meetings, seminars, etc. I have to clearly state I need any paperwork printed/photocopied onto coloured paper&mdash;which rarely happens!

## Strategies

Firstly, I have to timetable myself a general two-week plan, which I then break down into day plans and project plans. I have to be careful to stick to my times, otherwise I end up working too much and burning myself out, which doesn&rsquo;t help me or my clients. I went from being employed by various different companies to working for myself&mdash;this gave me the ability to control how and when I work, without any imposition and awkwardness to and from others.

> &ldquo;A good hug goes a long way when anxious.&rdquo;

My partner usually accompanies me whenever I go out, to ensure that I remain calm when in strange and/or crowded places. A good hug goes a long way when anxious. Lastly, I meditate every other day&mdash;it helps me clear my train of thoughts and leave me feeling refreshed and relaxed.
